#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Title
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Rationale
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Scientific applications, such as equation solvers and simulations, are very
 CPU-intensive.
 These applications, because of their heavy computational requirements,
 are usually run in high-performance computing(HPC) infrastructures using
 supercomputers or commodity clusters.
 Setting up such infrastructures requires a lot of initial capital and technical
 investments.
 Once the infrastructure has been set up, maintenance costs will also be
 required to update the hardware and software components.
 Although these infrastructures are indeed useful, studies have shown that
 they are underutilized
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "ostermann_performance_2010"

\end_inset

.
 Their usage depends on the computing demand pattern of scientists and researche
rs.
 Most HPC clusters in research centers cater to a mix of researchers from
 different areas.
 For example, physicists and chemists may share the same HPC cluster running
 on Linux.
 Differences in usage requirements of these researchers affect the overall
 operation of the cluster[cite].
 Provisioning the hardware and software requirements needed for scientific
 computing is thus very challenging because of these factors.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Despite the recent advances in hardware (increased processing speed and
 memory) and their decreasing costs, typical users do not harness the full
 capacity of their machines, either because the software they are using
 does not support them to or their computing needs do not require access
 to the full capacity of their machines.
 Web browsing and word processing, for example, usually do not require high-perf
ormance machines whereas gaming needs them for an enhanced user experience.
 Another example is the case of laboratory computers used for instruction
 in academic institutions.
 Despite having the latest processors and a good amount of memory, they
 are typically used just for simple programming exercises which do not require
 the full access to hardware performance.
 These underutilized machines can be used for scientific computing needs.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Machines used in scientific computing are usually dedicated, which means
 that they cannot be used for other general-computing purposes.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Objectives
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Methodology
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "dissertation"
options "plain"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
